Reworking scale section and optimizations (#279)
PrestaShop/docs: src/content/1.7/scale/optimizations.md

- 1.7/optimizations/
---

> # Optimize your PrestaShop performances

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Optimize your PrestaShop performance
```

Before making any change on your PrestaShop instance, it is highly recommended to perform some benchmarks.

> The idea behind this is to _know_ where you're coming from and make sure that your changes increase your performances, not the other way around.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The idea behind this is to _know_ what your baseline performance is, so that you can make sure that your changes are increasing your shop's performance and not the other way around.
```

> And if you've done no benchmark there is no way to ensure you did not decrease your performances in the end.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you've done no benchmark beforehand, there is no way to ensure you did not decrease your performances in the end.
```

{{% notice tip %}}
Keep in mind that the surest way to tune your shop is:

- benchmark
- make a change
- repeat
{{% /notice %}}

## Finding your bottleneck(s)

> Performance tuning can be a tricky thing, there are plenty of reason an application can be slowed down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Performance tuning can be a tricky thing, there are plenty of factors that can slow down an application.
```

It can come from your disks, lack of memory, network capacity, CPU: wherever you can think of.

Then, the challenge is to find your _current_ bottleneck (could be disks access), remove it and then find the next one (could be memory).

There's no way to enumerate all the performance issues we've encountered, but let's review the more common ones and tackle them.

### 1) PHP

> First, try to use PHP >=7 when possible. Hard work has been done on performance and it will provide a nice boost to your shop!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, try to use PHP >=7 when possible. Hard work has been done on performance starting on this version, and it will provide a nice speed boost to your shop!
```

If you're using PHP-FPM (which should be the case for most "modern" installations), you have to check the `pool`
configuration.
It's usually stored in the file ```/etc/php/7.x/fpm/pool.d/www.conf```.
Inside this file, the most important setting is the ```pm.max_children``` setting. It must be greater than the max number
of concurrent users you want to simulate during the bench.

{{% notice note %}}

> Note this configuration of PHP should be used on Production environments only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note this PHP configuration should be used on Production environments only.
```

; Increase this value if you work with products with a lot of combinations
max_input_vars = 20000
allow_url_fopen = on
```
### 2) PHP & File system

It is well known that PHP does not manage file systems very well.

> That's why there are plenty of useful tuning options to avoid constent file system's accesses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's why there are plenty of useful tuning options to avoid accessing the filesystem constantly.
```

#### realpath_cache

At each file access, by default, PHP will first check that the file is still there, causing plenty of `lstat` system calls. Potentially thousands.

> To avoid this, PHP allows to cache the files in a cache, then avoiding those system calls:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PHP provides an option to store this information in cache, so that it can avoid repeating those system calls constantly:
```

```
[PHP]
realpath_cache_size = 4096K
realpath_cache_ttl = 600
```

Keep in mind that this configuration is NOT compatible with other parameters, such as `open_basedir` and `safe_mode` directives.

> Finally, if you're using a NAS or any other network storage solution to store your files (in case of horizontal scaling, for example), it is more than recommeneded to enable this parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, if you're using a NAS or any other network storage solution to store your files (in case of horizontal scaling, for example), it is **highly recommended** to enable this setting.
```

#### opcache

> Because file system tuning is a never ending story, you can not only cache the files' path, but also its contents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because file system tuning is a never ending story, not only you can cache the files' path, but also its contents.
```

> Good news is, OPCache will not only store your files in memory, but it will store their bytecode, meaning the application already compiled, in a shared memory, available to all applications calls:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Good news is, OPCache will not only store your PHP files in memory, but it will store their bytecode, meaning files will already be compiled, in shared memory, available to all applications calls:
```

```
[opcache]
opcache.enable_file_override = On
opcache.interned_strings_buffer=64
opcache.memory_consumption=256
opcache.max_accelerated_files=20000
```

Also, your favorite ecommerce project made sure it's fully compatible with OPCache.

> Ain't it nice?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Isn't it nice?
```

mysqlcheck -a -A -uroot -pyour_password
```

### 6) Use a CDN

A CDN (Content Delivery Network) is a kind of proxy that will cache your static files and serve them instead of your own server.

Hence, a CDN will reduce drastically the amount of hits made to your server.

> There are plenty of CDN providers,  <a href="https://www.cloudflare.com">Cloudflare</a> is a good and free one. You can use as well to minify your page or to easily enable SSL on your site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are plenty of CDN providers, [Cloudflare](https://www.cloudflare.com) is a good and free one. You can use as well to minify your page or to easily enable SSL on your site.
```

> Just one slight consideration about CDNs though: any modification done to your shop, such as images, css and the like, may not be immediate once behind a CDN. Caching your assets, if you modify them on your server, you will need to wait for the cache expiration (often configurable) before seeing the modification live - or invalidate part or all your cache, most provider offer such features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just one slight consideration about CDNs though: any modification done to your shop's static assets, such as images, css and the like, may not be immediate available once behind a CDN. When those files are cached, if you modify them on your server, you will need to wait for the cache expiration (often configurable) before seeing the modification live - or invalidate part or all your cache. Most providers offer such features.
```

> ### 6) Optimize your prestashop

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 6) Optimize your PrestaShop
```
